CIP-0095? | Web-Wallet Bridge | Governance (#509)
cardano-foundation/CIPs: CIP-XXXX/CIP-XXXX.md

Authors:
    - Ryan Williams <ryan.williams@iohk.io>
Implementors: []
Discussions:
    - https://github.com/cardano-foundation/cips/pulls/509
    - https://discord.com/channels/826816523368005654/1101547251903504474/1101548279277309983
Created: 2022-02-24
License: CC-BY-4.0
---

## Abstract

This document describes an interface between webpage/web-based stacks and
Cardano wallets. This specification defines the API of the javascript object
that needs to be injected into web applications.

These definitions extend
[CIP-30 | Cardano dApp-Wallet Web Bridge](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0030)
to provide support for
[CIP-1694? | A First Step Towards On-Chain Decentralized Governance](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/380)
focussed web-based stacks. Here we aim to support the requirements of both Ada
holders' and DReps' interactions with such web-based stacks.

> **Note** This proposal assumes knowledge of the ledger governance model as outlined within
> [CIP-1694?](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/380).

## Motivation: why is this CIP necessary?

CIP-1694 introduces many new concepts, entities and actors to Cardano;

> describing their implementation at the ledger level. Yet, for most eco-system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
describing their implementation at the ledger level. Yet, for most ecosystem
```
I wouldn't disqualify your using the hyphen but this is an irregular spelling of _ecosystem_ & the first time I've seen it in Cardano reference material:
- https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ecosystem
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecosystem
- https://cardano-foundation.github.io/state-of-the-developer-ecosystem/2022/
- https://landing.essentialcardano.io/guide-to-the-ecosystem
- https://developers.cardano.org/showcase/?tags=ecosystem

Author: I agree, good spot -- not sure where I got that from 🤠

of generating DRep credentials. Rather these methods should be employed to
derive keys for non-script registered DReps.

#### Derivation

Here we describe DRep Key derivation as it attains to Cardano wallets who follow
the
[CIP-1852 | HD (Hierarchy for Deterministic) Wallets for Cardano](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/CIP-1852/README.md)
standard.

To differentiate DRep credentials from other Cardano keys the derivation path
must follow:

`m / 1718' / 1815' / account' / chain / address_index`

We strongly suggest that a maximum of one set of DRep credentials should be
associated with one wallet account, this can be achieved by setting `chain=0`
and `address_index=0`. Thus avoiding the need for DRep Key discovery.

We believe the overhead that would be introduced by "multi-DRep" accounts is an
unjustified expense. Future iterations of this specification may expand on this,
but at present this is seen as unnecessary.

> **Note** `1718` was the year that François-Marie adopted the pseudonym Voltaire.

#### Tooling

Supporting tooling should clearly label these key pairs as "CIP-???? DRep Keys".

> Bech32 prefixes of `drep_sk` and `drep_vk` should be used.

Reviewer: I don't see these in CIP-0005... should a CIP-0005 modification to add these prefixes therefore be included in this PR?

Author: Good spot @rphair, I have added placeholders in.

Reviewer: resolved in https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/509/commits/65e34ef65214752adfaf9ac31d67b77297191184

## Rationale: how does this CIP achieve its goals?

The guiding principle for this design is to reduce the complexity for wallet
providers to implement. This is motivated by the necessity for users to be able
to interact with the age of Voltaire as soon as possible, keeping the wallet's
ask small should reduce implementation time.

This design aims to make the tracking of a user's governance state an optional
endeavour for wallet providers. This is achieved by placing the responsibility
on clients to track a user's governance (CIP-1694) state, i.e. if a wallet user
is a DRep, what DRep a wallet holder has delegated to.

Despite only defining the minimal set of endpoints required, we do not wish to
discourage the creation of subsequent CIPs which may support a wider range of
governance endpoints. Nor does this specification aim to discourage wallet
providers from fully integrating CIP-1694 governance, side-stepping the
necessity for clients (and this API).

### Why Web-based Stacks

Web-based stacks, with wallet connectivity, are a familiar place for users to be
able to interact with Cardano. These tools lower the technical bar to be able to

> engage with the eco-system. Thus we believe encouraging further adoption of this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
engage with the ecosystem. Thus we believe encouraging further adoption of this
```
same as above

included within CIP-30. Two; deploy this specification as its own standalone
web-bridge.

It would be undesirable to include this functionality within the base CIP-30 API
because it would force all clients and wallets supporting CIP-30 to support this
API. This is because not all client apps or wallet will have the need or desire
to support this specification thus forcing cooperation would not desirable.

The reason we chose to not deploy this specification on its own is because it is
unlikely that clients implementing this API will not want to also use the
functionality offered by CIP-30. Additionally, CIP-30 offers a extensibility
mechanism meaning that the initial handshake connection is defined and thus wont
be needed to be defined within this specification.

### DRep Key

We chose to introduce the concept of a DRep Key, building on top of CIP-1694,
this we see as a necessary step for wallet implementors. By setting a
(hierarchical) deterministic derivation path it enables restorability from a
seed phrase.

With this definition we aim to standard for tooling to be able to derive DRep
credentials from mnemonics, not only those wallets who support this web-bridge.

> This standard brings all the benefits of the application of generic eco-system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This standard brings all the benefits of the application of generic ecosystem
```
same as above
